This project develops a classification model for determining health outcomes for cirrhosis patients based on demographic and clinical variables. The dataset used comes from Kaggle and contains 418 instances of Mayo Clinic patients with cirrhosis who were selected into the clinical trial for the drug D-penicillamine. Overall there 
are 18 variables, with a categorical target variable, status, tracking whether a patient was censored (C), censored due to liver transplantation (CL), or died. Listed python code trains 4 models, SVC, LogisticRegression, RandomForestClassifier, and XGBoost, and they are evaluated on f1 score. Since the data contains missing values, the first three types utilize the reduced feature model, while XGBoost is able to handle missing values internally. Ultimately, XGBoost was the best model, with superior average and standard deviation across random states, and the highest f1 score achieved was .7799. Local feature importance as well as graphs on model performance are stored in the figures folder, and they give context into the performance of the model. The goal of this project is to create an interpretable model for doctors to use to inform prognosis and a treatment plan, and the ability to confidently predict disease outcomes as well as understand the factors going into it allows both the patient and doctor to be secure in a path forward in treating an otherwise bleak diagnosis. 


Listed below are the versions of python and required packages to run the code locally
[versions](config.yml)